We always see
on JW Broadcasting®
experiences of how
Jehovah takes care of other people.
But you never think
that it’s going to happen to you.
I’ve just never seen—
I couldn’t see the street or anything.
It was so intense—the rain.
You could just sense the terror.
I mean, it was a raging torrent.
It felt like the mountain was coming down.
The city was under water.
There was so much water
that it was chest high.
Even in the Kingdom Hall,
the level rose above the waist.
The chairs were just floating.
It was shocking to see the amount of water
that was actually inside the Kingdom Hall.
In one week, there were seven floods,
and each one was just as bad as the last one.
Again, I still didn’t understand how bad,
and a brother said,
“Maybe you better come up to this area.”
So when I got there, it was devastation.
If it was a two-story house,
the first story was full of mud
so now the second story was on street level.
In a rainfall of only five hours,
everything was swept away
—all the houses of the brothers.
When we got there the next day,
it seemed like a bomb had gone off.
Everything was blown apart.
We visited one family, and the brother said:
“I can’t go to the meeting.
I don’t have a pair of shoes,
and my wife just has
the clothes on her back.”
One of the local sisters who lost everything
worked so hard to build a beautiful home
—a beautiful, comfortable home—
and it was all destroyed
in a moment by a landslide.
And to hear her say
that just like the Bible says that you
should ‘store up treasures in heaven,
where moth and rust do not consume’
—I wish I could put a picture
of it in my Bible so that every time
I read it I’ll think of that.
She had regrets.
It just taught me
that service to Jehovah is always worthwhile.
We can work so hard in this system of things
to have a comfortable life,
but there’s no guarantee;
we can lose it so quickly.
But the service that we have to Jehovah
—it lasts forever;
it will never be destroyed.
It was time to get organized
with groups of brothers
to go and help to clean up the homes
of the ones that were affected.
It seemed like everywhere you looked
there were brothers and sisters.
They arrived in trucks and buses
with buckets, brooms,
and mops to help clean out
the homes of those affected.
We were cleaning out one house, . . .
. . . our very first house . . .
. . . our very first house.
And the sisters were putting down bags
to put dirt on the bags.
And then carrying them.
And then carrying them, right?
And somebody said,
“Man, it would be nice
to have a wheelbarrow.”
And so we’re digging it out,
and there’s a wheelbarrow . . .
. . . in the mud . . .
. . . in the mud.
And we said:
“Hey, there, Jehovah gave us a wheelbarrow!”
So we got the wheelbarrow out,
and that really helped.
We were going to one house
of a family of Witnesses.
It was very difficult to get
into the house because we couldn’t get
the front door open
because of all the mud.
Once we actually got into the house,
it was like, “Where do we start?”
Yeah, it was overwhelming.
There was one brother who just stood there,
watching from inside the middle
of the house, wasn’t he?
Yeah.
We kind of thought,
‘Why isn’t he helping?’
And then we realized
after a while that this was his house.
He explained that after each of the floods
during the week, he cleaned his house out.
And then another flood came,
and he cleaned his house out.
And he did another one,
until it got to the sixth one.
And after that, he’d lost all his energy,
all his spirit, so he just left it.
He couldn’t do anymore.
I think we realized at that point
that it wasn’t just important
to go and dig someone’s house out.
It was important
to take care of them as well.
We realized that during this disaster,
a lot of the friends
needed spiritual encouragement,
and that’s what we really wanted to bring.
We gave them a hug to show them
that we love them and appreciate them,
even though they
went through a very hard time.
Just as the Bible says
that when one member suffers,
the rest of the body
also suffers and feels the pain,
and we could sense this
among the brothers there.
Even brothers
from the Branch Committee
came to the area,
visiting each publisher personally
in order to encourage those
who had been affected by the disaster.
A special meeting
was arranged where they gave talks.
All this helped us
to see that Jehovah was there.
He was sending his servants to upbuild us.
The spirit of the Governing Body,
and also through the Branch Committee,
was to show love to the brothers.
They wanted us to make sure that they
were spiritually strengthened
during these critical times.
“We’re worried about you.
How are you?”
Just hearing them say that
was like a pat on the back
—a hug from Jehovah saying,
‘You’re not alone;
you have your brothers.’
You know, it’s one thing
to read about things like that,
but to see it in action—that’s another thing.
You definitely saw love.
That is our identifying mark, isn’t it?
The friends were there
early in the morning and late at night,
walking through mud
—mud on their face,
mud in their hair.
They just really showed love
in many different ways,
and we just want to say
thank you to all the friends.
Jehovah understands
what we need and when we need it,
and he gives us more than what we expect.
To see that no matter what happens,
Jehovah is always going to take care of us
—that’s awesome!
The Disaster Relief Committee
received a letter from a family.
They said, “The floods can destroy our home,
“but they cannot destroy
“our love for Jehovah
and the love that we have for him
and he has for us.”
We don’t know what situations
our brothers will have to face
as this system winds down to a finish.
But one thing we know for certain
is that we can count on the support
of Jehovah and his organization.
If we’re not part of this organization,
what do we have?
We’ve got nothing.
That’s what nothing is.
When I talk about people
losing homes and stuff,
those are just material things.
But staying with the organization,
this is the truth.
What an honor!
What a privilege to be part of this!